Software Product Management

Three viewpoints in achieving better software
1: The right product
2: Done right
3: Managed right

How to measure project success?
1: was the project delivered on schedule
2: was the project within the budget
3: was the project meeting the specifications
4: developer satisfaction
5: post-release bugs
6: support needed after release
7: customer rating
8: revenue generated
9: client satisfaction

Four values of Agile
1: Individuals and Interations > Processes and Tools
   As a product manager, you need to facilitate communication between the people wanting the product 
   and the people producing the product.
2: Working Software > Comprehensive Documentation
3: Customer Collaboration > Contract Negotiation
   As a product manager, you need to foster a positive relationship with your customer; that is being more concerned with what 
   they want and not as concerned with what is laid out in some contract.
4: Responding to change > following a plan
   

12 Principles of Agile Grouped into 3 categories
1st Category: Delivering Working Software
              1: Our highest priority is to satisfy the customer through early and continuous delivery of valuable software.
              2: Deliver working software frequently, from a couple of weeks to a couple of months with a preference to the shorter timescale.
	      3: Working software is the primary measure of progress.

2nd Category: Flexible Design and Adapting to Change
              4: Welcome changing requirements, even late in development. Agile processes harness change for the customer's competitve advantage.
              5: Continuous attention to technical excellence and good design enhances agility.
              6: Agile processes promote sustainable development. The sponsors, developers, and users should be able to maintain a constant pace indefinitely.
              7: Simplicity, the art of maximizing the amount of work not done, is essential.
                 This means, Agile is about delivering what is essential and reducing unnecessary work.

3rd Category: Collaborative Communication and Organization
              8: Build projects around motivated individuals. Give them the environment and support they need, and trust them to get the job done.
                 General George S Patton once said, "Tell people where to go, but not how to get there, and you'll be amazed by the results"
              9: The best architectures, requirements, and designs emerge from self-organizing teams
             10: Business people and developers must work together daily throughout the project.
             11: The most efficient and effective method for conveying information to and within a development team is face-to-face conversation.
             12: At regular intervals, the team reflects on how to become more effective, then tunes and adjusts its behavior accordingly.

Phases in Software Development
1: Specification: is where the idea for the product is conceived.
2: Design & Implementation: is figuring out the optimal way to structure the software which allows effective design and coding to begin.
3: Verification & Validation: is where you test the software for bugs and ensure that the system is delivering what the client needs.

